'\" t
.\" @(#)extcheck.1 1.11 03/01/23 SMI;
.\" Copyright 2003 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2003 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Tous droits r\351serv\351s.
.\"
.TH extcheck 1 "14 July 2000"
.SH NAME
extcheck \- jar conflict detection utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B extcheck 
[ 
.B \-verbose 
] [
.B \-J
]
.I targetfile.jar
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "jar conflict detection utility" "" "jar conflict detection utility \(em \fLextcheck\fP"
.IX "extcheck" "" "\fLextcheck\fP \(em jar conflict detection utility"
The 
.B extcheck 
utility checks a specified
.B jar
file for title and
version conflicts with any extensions installed in the JDK\(tm
software.
Before installing an extension, you can use this utility
to see if the same or a more recent version of the extension is
already installed.
.LP
The 
.B extcheck 
utility compares the Specification-title and
Specification-version headers in the manifest of 
.I targetfile.jar
file against the corresponding headers in all Jar files currently
installed in the extension directory.
(The extension directory is
.B jre/lib/ext
by default.) The 
.B extcheck 
utility compares version
numbers in the same way as the method
.BR java.lang.Package.isCompatibleWith .
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.TP 15
.B \-verbose
Lists
.B jar
files in the extension directory as they are
checked.
Additionally, manifest attributes of the target 
.B jar
file and any conflicting 
.B jar 
files are also reported.
.TP 15
.B \-J " option"
Pass 
.I option
to the Java virtual machine, where option
is one of the options described on the man page for
the java application launcher, java(1). For example,
.I \-J-Xms48m
sets the startup memory to 48 megabytes. It is a common
convention for 
.B \-J
to pass options to the underlying virtual machine.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.TP 15
.B 0
No conflict is detected.
.TP
non-zero
If the manifest of any of the 
.B jar 
files in the extensions directory
has the same Specification-title and the same or a newer
Specification-version number, or if
.I targetfile.jar 
does not
have the Specification-title or Specification-version attributes
in its manifest.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
=
Availability	SUNWj3dev
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jar (1)
