'\" t
.\" @(#)rmiregistry.1 1.12 03/01/23 SMI;
.\" Copyright 2003 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2003 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Tous droits réservés.
.\" 
.TH rmiregistry 1 "14 July 2000"
.SH NAME
rmiregistry \- Java remote object registry
.\"
.\" This comment retained for historical purposes only:
.\"  This document was created by saving an HTML file as text
.\"  from the JavaSoft web site:
.\" 
.\" http://java.sun.com/products/jdk/1.2/docs/tooldocs/tools.html
.\" 
.\"  and adding appropriate troff macros.
.\" 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rmiregistry 
[
.I port
] [
.BI \-J option
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "Java remote object registry" "" "Java remote object registry \(em \fLrmiregistry\fP"
.IX "rmiregistry" "" "\fLrmiregistry\fP \(em Java remote object registry"
The Java\(tm
.B rmiregistry 
command creates and starts a remote object
registry on the specified port on the current host. 
If port number
is omitted, the registry is started on port 1099. 
The 
.B rmiregistry
command produces no output and is typically run in the background.
For example:
.LP
.RS
.B example% rmiregistry &
.RE
.LP
A remote object registry is a bootstrap naming service that is
used by
.SM RMI
servers on a host to bind remote objects to names.
Clients can then look up remote objects and make remote method
invocations.
.LP
The registry is typically used to locate the first remote object
on which an application needs to invoke methods.
That object in
turn provides application-specific support for finding other
objects.
.LP
The methods of the 
.B java.rmi.registry.LocateRegistry 
class are used
to get a registry operating on a particular host or host and port.
.LP
The
.SM URL\s0-based
methods of the 
.B java.rmi.Naming 
class operate on a
registry and can be used to look up a remote object, bind a simple
(string) name to a remote object, rebind a new name to a remote
object (overriding the old binding), unbind a remote object, and
list the
.SM URL\s0s
bound in the registry.
.SH OPTIONS
The following option is supported:
.TP 15
.BI \-J option
Used in conjunction with any java option, this option passes
.I option
(no spaces between
.B \-J
and
.IR option )
on to the java interpreter.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp 1n
.TS
box;
cbp-1 | cbp-1
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
=
Availability	SUNWj3rt, SUNWj3dev
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR attributes (5)
.LP
See (or search
.BR java.sun.com )
for the following:
.TP 5
.B java.rmi.Naming @
http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.3/docs/api/java/rmi/Naming.html
.TP 5
.B java.rmi.registry.LocateRegistry @
http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.3/docs/api/java/rmi/registry/LocateRegistry.html
