'\" t
.\" @(#)java.1 1.20 00/06/13 SMI;
.\" Copyright 2003 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2003 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Tous droits réservés.
.\" 
.TH java 1 "16 Sep 2002"
.SH NAME
java \- Java interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B java 
[ 
.IB options 
] 
.I class 
[ 
.I argument ... 
]
.LP
.B java 
[ 
.I options 
] 
.BI \-jar " file.jar"
.if n .ti +5n
[ 
.I argument ... 
]
.SH  PARAMETERS
Options may be in any order.
For a discussion of
parameters which apply to a specific option, see
.B OPTIONS
below.
.TP 15
.I options
Command-line options.
See
.B OPTIONS
below.
.TP
.I class
Name of the class to be invoked.
.TP
.I file.jar
Name of the jar 
file to be invoked.
Used only with the 
.B \-jar
option.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "Java interpreter" "" "Java interpreter \(em \fLjava\fP"
.IX "java" "" "\fLjava\fP \(em Java interpreter"
The 
.B java 
utility launches a Java application.
It does this by
starting a Java runtime environment, loading a specified class,
and invoking that class's 
.B main 
method.
The method must have the following signature:
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
   public static void main(String args[])
.fi
.ft 1
.LP
The method must be declared 
.B public 
and 
.BR static , 
it must not
return any value, and it must accept a 
.B String 
array as a parameter.
By default, the first non-option argument is the name of the class
to be invoked.
A fully-qualified class name should be used.
If the
.B \-jar
option is specified, the first non-option argument is the
name of a JAR archive containing class and resource files for the
application, with the startup class indicated by the Main-Class
manifest header.
.LP
The Java runtime searches for the startup class, and other classes
used, in three sets of locations: the bootstrap class path, the
installed extensions, and the user class path.
.LP
Non-option arguments after the class name or JAR file name are
passed to the main function.
.SH OPTIONS
The launcher has a set of standard options that are supported on
the current runtime environment and will be supported in future
releases.
However, options below that are described as having been
replaced by another one are obsolete and may be removed in
a future release.
An additional set of non-standard options are specific
to the current virtual machine implementation and are subject to
change in the future.
Non-standard options begin with 
.BR  \-X .
.SS Standard Options
.IX "java" "Standard Options" "\fLjava\fP \(em Java interpreter"
.TP 20
.B \-client
Selects the Java HotSpot Client
.SM VM\s0.
This is the default.
.TP
.B \-server
Selects the Java HotSpot Server
.SM VM\s0.
.TP
.BI \-classpath " classpath"
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-cp " classpath"
.PD
Specifies a list of directories, JAR archives, and ZIP archives
to search for class files.
Class path entries are separated
by colons (:). Specifying
.B \-classpath 
or 
.B \-cp 
overrides any
setting of the 
.SB CLASSPATH 
environment variable.
.sp 1n
If 
.B \-classpath 
and 
.B \-cp 
are not used and 
.SB CLASSPATH 
is not set,
the user class path consists of the current directory (.).
.TP
.B \-debug
This has been replaced by 
.BR \-Xdebug .
.TP
.BI \-D property=value
Sets a system property value.
.TP
.BR \-enableassertions " :<package name>... |:<class name>"
.PD 0
.TP
.BR \-ea " :<package name>... |:<class name>"
Enable assertions. Assertions are disabled by default.
.sp 1n
With no arguments,
.BR enableassertions
or
.BR \-ea 
enable assertions. With one argument ending in "...",
the switch enables assertions in the specified package and any
subpackages. If the argument is simply "...", the switch
enables assertions in the unnamed package in the current
working directory. With one argument not ending in "...",
the switch enables assertions in the specified class.
.sp 1n
If a single command line contains multiple instances 
of these switches, they are processed in order before 
loading any classes. So, for example, to run a program
with assertions enabled only in 
.BR package com.wombat.fruitbat 
(and any subpackages), the following command could be used:
.sp 1n
java -ea:com.wombat.fruitbat... <Main Class>
.sp 1n
The 
.BR \-enableassertions 
and 
.BR \-ea 
switches apply to all 
.BR s 
loaders and to system
classes (which do not have a class loader). There 
is one exception to this rule: in
their no-argument form, the switches do not apply to system. 
This makes it easy to turn on asserts in all classes 
except for system classes. A separate switch
is provided to enable asserts in all system classes; see
.BR \-enablesystemassertions 
below.
.sp 1n
.TP
.BR \-disableassertions " :<package name>... |:<class;"
.PD 0
.TP
.BR \-da " :<package name>... |:<class name>"
Disable assertions. This is the default.
.sp 1n
With no arguments, 
.BR disableassertions 
or 
.BR \-da 
disables assertions. With one
argument ending in "...", the switch 
disables assertions in the specified
package and any subpackages. If the 
argument is simply "...", the switch
disables assertions in the unnamed package 
in the rent working directory. With
one argument not ending in "...", the 
switch disables assertions in the
specified class.
.sp 1n
To run a program with assertions enabled in package 
.BR com.wombat.fruitbat 
but
disabled in class 
.BR com.wombat.fruitbat.Brickbat , 
the following command could
be used:
.sp 1n
java -ea:com.wombat.fruitbat... -da:com.wombat.fruitbat.Brickbat <Main Class>
.sp 1n
The 
.BR \-disableassertions 
and 
.BR \-da 
switches apply to all 
.BR ss 
loaders and to
system classes (which do not have a class loader). 
There is one exception to this
rule: in their no-argument form, the switches do 
not apply to system. This
makes it easy to turn on asserts in all classes 
except for system classes. A
separate switch is provided to enable asserts 
in all system classes; see
.BR \-disablesystemassertions 
below. 
.sp 1n
.TP
.BR \-enablesystemassertions
.PD 0
.TP
.BR \-esa
Enable asserts in all system classes (sets the default assertion status
for system classes to true).
.sp 1n
.TP
.BR \-disablesystemassertions
.PD 0
.TP
.BR \-dsa
Disables asserts in all system classes
.sp 1n
.TP
.B \-jar
Executes a program encapsulated in a JAR archive.
The first
argument is the name of a JAR file instead of a
startup class name. 
In order for this option to work, the manifest of the
JAR file must contain a line of the form 
\f3Main-Class:\f1\f2classname\f1. 
Here, 
.I classname 
identifies the class having the
.B public static void main(String[] args) 
method that serves as
your application's starting point.
See the Jar tool reference
page and the Jar trail of the Java Tutorial for information
about working with Jar files and Jar-file manifests.
When you use this option, the JAR file is the source of all
user classes, and other user class path settings are ignored.
.sp 1n
.TP
.B  \-noclassgc
This has been replaced by 
.BR \-Xnoclassgc .
.TP
.BI \-ms n
This has been replaced by 
.B \-Xms
.IR n .
.TP
.BI \-mx n
This has been replaced by 
.B \-Xmx
.IR n .
.TP
.BI \-ss n
This has been replaced by 
.B \-Xss
.IR n .
.TP
.B \-verbose
.PD 0
.TP
.BI \-verbose: class
Displays information about each class loaded.
.PD
.TP
.B \-verbosegc
This has been replaced by 
.BR \-verbose:gc .
.TP
.B \-verbose:gc
Reports on each garbage collection event.
.TP
.B \-verbose:jni
Reports information about use of native methods and other Java
Native Interface activity.
.TP
.B \-version
Displays version information and exit.
.TP
.B \-showversion
Displays version information and continues.
.TP
.B \-?
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-help
Displays usage information and exit.
.PD
.TP
.B \-X
Displays information about non-standard options and exit.
.SS Non-Standard Options
.IX "java" "Non-Standard Options" "\fLjava\fP \(em Java interpreter"
.TP 20
.B \-Xint
Operates in interpreted-only mode.
Compilation to native code is disabled, and all bytecodes are
executed by the interpreter.
The performance benefits offered by the
Java HotSpot VMs' adaptive compiler will not
be present in this mode.
.TP 20
.BI \-Xbootclasspath: bootclasspath
Specifies a colon-separated list of directories, JAR
archives, and ZIP archives to search for boot class files.
These are used in place of the boot class files included in
the Java 2 SDK and Java 2 Runtime Environment.
.TP
.BI \-Xbootclasspath/a: path
Specifies a colon-separated
.I path
of directories,
.SM JAR
archives, and
.SM ZIP
archives to append to the
default bootstrap class path.
.TP
.BI \-Xbootclasspath/p: path
Specifies a colon-separated
.I path
of directories,
.SM JAR
archives, and
.SM ZIP
archives to prepend in
front of the default bootstrap class path.
Note: Applications that use this option for the purpose of
overriding a class in
.B rt.jar
should not be deployed,
as doing so would contravene the Java 2 Runtime
Environment binary code license.
.TP
.B \-Xcheck:jni
Perform additional checks for Java Native Interface (JNI) functions. 
Specifically, the Java Virtual Machine validates the parameters passed to
the JNI function as well as the runtime environment data before
processing the JNI request. Any invalid data encountered indicates a
problem in the native code, and the Java Virtual Machine will terminate with
a fatal error in such cases. Expect a performance degradation when this
option is used.
.TP
.B \-Xdebug
Starts with the debugger enabled.
.TP
.B \-Xcheck:jni
Perform additional check for Java Native Interface functions.
.TP
.B \-Xfuture
Performs strict class-file format checks.
For purposes of backwards compatibility,
the default format checks performed by the
Java 2 SDK's virtual machine are no stricter than
the checks performed by 1.1.x versions of the JDK software.
The
.B \-Xfuture
flag turns on stricter class-file format checks
that enforce closer conformance to the class-file format
specification.
Developers are encouraged to use this flag
when developing new code because the stricter checks will
become the default in future releases of the Java application launcher.
.TP
.B \-Xnoclassgc
Disables class garbage collection
.TP
.BI \-Xincgc
Enable the incremental garbage collector. The incremental 
garbage collector, which is off by default,
will eliminate occasional garbage-collection pauses 
during program execution. However, it can lead to
a roughly 10% decrease in overall GC performance.  
.TP
.BI \-Xloggc: " file"
Report on each garbage collection event, as with 
.BR \-verbose:gc , 
but log this data to 
.I file . 
In addition to the information 
.BR \-verbose:gc 
gives, each reported event will be preceeded by the time (in seconds)
since the first garbage-collection event. 
.sp 1
Always use a local file system for storage of this file to 
avoid stalling the JVM due to network latency.
The file may be truncated in the case of a full file system 
and logging will continue on the truncated file.
This option overrides 
.BR \-verbose:gc 
if both are given on the command line. 
.TP
.BI \-Xms n
Specifies the initial size of the memory allocation pool.
This value must be greater than 1000.
To modify the meaning of
.IR n ,
append either the letter 
.B k 
for kilobytes or the letter 
.B m 
for megabytes.
The default value is 2m.
.TP
.BI \-Xmx n
Specifies the maximum size of the memory allocation pool.
This value must be greater than 1000.
To modify the meaning of
.IR n ,
append either the letter 
.B k 
for kilobytes or the letter 
.B m 
for megabytes.
The default value is 64m.
The uppoer limit for this value will be
approximately 4000m on SPARC platforms and
2000m on x86 platforms, minus overhead amounts.
.TP
.BI \-Xprof
Profiles the running program, and sends profiling
data to standard output.
This option is provided as
a utility that is useful in program development
and is not intended to be be used in production systems.
.TP
\f3\-Xrunhprof[:help][:\f2suboption\f3=\f2value\f1,...]
Enables cpu, heap, or monitor profiling.
This option is
typically followed by a list of comma-separated
.IR suboption = value
pairs.
Run the command
.B java \-Xrunhprof:help 
to obtain a list of suboptions and their
default values.
.\" .TP
.\" -Xcheck:jni
.\" Perform additional check for Java Native Interface functions.
.\" .TP
.\" -Xverify
.\" -Xverify:all
.\" Verify that all class files obey language constraints.
.\" .TP
.\" -Xverify:remote
.\" Verify only remote class files. This is the default
.\" verification level.
.\" .TP
.\" -Xverify:none
.\" Disable class file verification.
.TP
.BI \-Xss n
Each Java thread has two stacks: one for Java code and
one for C code.
The
.B \-Xss
option sets the maximum stack
size that can be used by C code in a thread to
.IR n .
Every thread that is spawned during the execution of the
program passed to
.B java
has
.I n
as its C stack size.
The default units for
.I n
are bytes and
.I n
must be > 1000 bytes.
.sp 1n
To modify the meaning of
.IR n ,
append either the letter 
.B k 
for kilobytes or the letter 
.B m 
for megabytes.
The default stack size is determined by the 
Linux operating system upon which the Java platform is running.
.TP
.BI \-Xrs
Reduce usage of operating-system signals by Java virtual machine (JVM).
.sp 1n
Sun's JVM catches signals to implement shutdown hooks for abnormal JVM 
termination. The JVM uses SIGHUP, SIGINT, and SIGTERM to initiate the 
running of shutdown hooks. The JVM uses SIGQUIT to perform thread dumps.
.sp 1n
Applications that embed the JVM frequently need to trap signals like 
SIGINT or SIGTERM, and in such cases there is the possibility of 
interference between the applications' signal handlers and the JVM 
shutdown-hooks facility. 
.sp 1n
To avoid such interference, the 
.B \-Xrs 
option can be used to turn off 
the JVM shutdown-hooks feature. When 
.B \-Xrs 
is used, the signal masks 
for SIGINT, SIGTERM, SIGHUP, and SIGQUIT are not changed by the JVM, 
and signal handlers for these signals are not installed.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP 20
.SB CLASSPATH
Used to provide the system with a path to user-defined classes.
Directories are separated by colons.
For example:
.RS 15
.sp 1n
.B .:/home/avh/classes:/usr/local/java/classes
.RE 
.br
.ne 12
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR javac (1),
.BR jdb (1),
.BR javac (1),
.BR jar (1),
.BR set (1)
.LP
See (or search
.BR java.sun.com )
for the following:
.TP 2
.B JDK File Structure @
http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.4/docs/tooldocs/linux/jdkfiles.html
.TP
.B JAR Files @ 
http://java.sun.com/docs/books/tutorial/jar/
.SH NOTES
All the
.B \-X
options are unstable.
As noted in the
.B OPTIONS
section, some of the "standard" options are obsolete.
