'\" t
.\"
.\" Copyright 2003 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" SUN PROPRIETARY/CONFIDENTIAL. Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.TH javaws 1 "25 February 2003"
.SH NAME
\fBjavaws \fP- Java Web Start command launcher
\fB
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.fam C
\fBjavaws\fP 
.TP
.B
\fBjavaws\fP [ \fIoptions\fP ]
.TP
.B
\fBjavaws\fP [ \fIoptions\fP ] \fIURL\fP
.fam T
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
Options may be in any order. For a discussion of a specific option, 
see OPTIONS below.
.TP
.B
\fIoptions\fP
Command-line \fIoptions\fP. See OPTIONS below.
.TP
.B
\fIURL\fP
Uniform Resource Locator (\fIURL\fP) of the JNLP (Java Network 
Launching Protocol) file.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBjavaws\fP command launches Java Web Start, which is the reference
implementation of the Java Network Launching Protocol (JNLP).
Java Web Start launches java application/applets hosted on a network.
.PP
Without any \fIoptions\fP \fBjavaws\fP will launch the Java Web Start application
manager, which users can launch applications/applet or configure
Java Web Start.
.PP
If an \fIURL\fP specifying a JNLP (Java Network Launching Protocol) file is
specified, \fBjavaws\fP will launch the Java application/applet specified 
in the JNLP file.
.SH OPTIONS
The \fBjavaws\fP launcher has a set of \fIoptions\fP that are supported in the
current release.
However, the \fIoptions\fP may be removed in a future  
release.
All \fB-X\fP \fIoptions\fP are non-standard and subject to change.
.SS                          
.TP
.B
\fB-offline\fP
Runs Java Web Start in offline mode.
.TP
.B
\fB-uninstall\fP <url>
Removes a specific application/applet indicated
by the \fIURL\fP to the JNLP file from the user's cache.
If <url> is not specified, the entire cache is removed.
Java Web Start will exit after the command
is completed.
.SS
.TP
.B
\fB-updateVersions\fP
Updates the Java Web Start configuration file based on the current machine's settings.  Java Web Start will exit after the command is completed.
.SS        
.TP
.B
\fB-Xclearcache\fP
Clears the user's cache.  Java Web Start will exit
after the command is completed.
.SS        
.TP
.B
\fB-Xnosplash\fP
Disable the display of the initial splash screen.
.SS
.SH FILES
.SS
.TP
.B
\fB$HOME/.java/.deployment/deployment.properties\fP
System configuration file for Java Deployment Products
.SS        
.TP
.B
\fB$HOME/.mailcap\fP
User's mailcap file to specify helper applications for Netscape/
Mozilla Browser 
.SS
.TP
.B
\fB$HOME/.mime.types\fP
User's mimetype file to specify mimetypes supported in Netscape/
Mozilla Browser 
.SS        
.TP
.B
\fB/etc/mailcap\fP
System mailcap file to specify helper applications for Netscape/
Mozilla Browser 
.SS        
.TP
.B
\fB/etc/mime.types\fP
System mimetype file to specify mimetypes supported in Netscape/
Mozilla Browser 
.SS       
.SH NOTES
The Java Web Start Product Pages @
http://java.sun.com/products/javawebstart
