'\" t
.\" @(#)orbd.1 1.20 01/03/10 SMI;
.\" Copyright 2003 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2003 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Tous droits riservis.
.\" 
.TH orbd 1 "10 March 2001"
.SH NAME
orbd - The Object Request Broker Daemon
.LP
.B orbd
is used to enable clients to transparently locate and invoke
persistent objects on servers in the CORBA environment.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B orbd
<
.IB options
>
.SH DESCRIPTION 
The
.B orbd
tool is used to enable clients to transparently locate and
invoke persistent objects on server in the CORBA environment.
The persistent servers, while publishing the persistent
object references in the Naming Service, include the port
number of the ORBD in the object reference instead of the
port number of the Server. The inclusion of ORBD port 
number in the object reference for persistent object
references has the following advantages:
.LP
.TP 2
\(bu The object reference in the Naming Service remains 
independent of the server life cycle. For example, the object
reference could be published by the server in the Naming
Service when it is first installed, and then independent
of how many times the server is started or shutdown, the
ORBD will always return the correct object reference
to the invoking client.
.TP 2
\(bu The client needs to lookup the object reference in
the Naming Service only once, and can keep re-using
this reference independent of the chanes introduced
due to server life cycle.
.LP
The 
.B orbd
tool incorporates the following functionality:
.LP
.TP 2
\(bu Server Manager
When used in conjunction with the servertool,
the Server Manager locates, registers, and
activates a server when a client wants to access
the server.
.TP 2
\(bu Interoperable Naming Service (INS)
The naming service maps logical names to object
references so that you can use the name to
retrieve the object reference and invoke
operations on that object. ORBD is used instead of
the Transient Naming Service, tnameserv. ORBD
includes both a Transient Naming Service and a
Persistent Naming Service.
.TP 2
\(bu Bootstrap Name Server
The persistent servers publish their object
references in this Name Server. The clients can, in
turn, contact this Name Server for looking up the
object references. The advantage of providing this
bootstrap name server as part of ORBD is that the
user doesn't need to start an additional Name
Server process for publishing and resolving object
references. 
.LP
The ORBD works with the 
.B servertool,
which is used to register, unregister, and list server information.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-port " port"
Specifies the activation port where the ORBD
should be started. The default value for this port
is 1049. This port number is added to the port
field of the persistent Interoperable Object
References (IOR). (optional) 
.TP
.BI \-defaultdb " directory"
Specifies the base where the ORBD persistent
storage directory 
.BI orb.db 
is created. If this option
is not specified, the default value is "./orb.db".
(optional)
.TP
.BI \-serverid " ID"
Specifies the persistent server ID to be assigned
to this ORBD. The default value is 1. (optional) 
.TP
.BI \-ORBInitialPort " nameserverport"
Specifies the port on which the bootstrap name
server is running. Note that when using Solaris
software, you must become root to start a process
on a port under 1024. For this reason, we
recommend that you use a port number greater
than or equal to 1024. (required) 
.TP
.BI \-serverPollingTime " milliseconds"
Specifies how often the daemon thread checks for
the health of registered servers. ORBD polls
process health every 
.BR milliseconds. 
The default
value is 1,000 ms (or 1 second). The value
specified for 
.BR milliseconds 
must be a valid integer.
.TP
.BI \-serverStartupDelay " milliseconds" 
Specifies how long the ServerManager waits
before sending a location forward exception after
the server is restarted. ORBD waits for
.BR milliseconds 
before raising a location forward
exception. The default value is 1,000 ms (or 1
second). The value specified for 
.BR milliseconds 
must be a valid integer. 
.TP
.B J " option"
Pass
.I option
to the Java virtual machine, where 
.I option
is one of the options described on the man page for the
java application launcher, java(1). For example,
.I \-J-Xms48m
sets the startup memory to 48 megabytes. It is a common convention for
.B \-J
to pass options to the underlying virtual machine.
.SS ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B CLASSPATH
Used to provide the system a path to
user-defined classes. Directories are separated by
colons. For information on setting the CLASSPATH,
see 
.BR "Setting the Class Path" . 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR java,
.BR javac,
.BR classpath, 
.BR servertool
