'\" t
.\" @(#)servertool.1 1.20 01/03/10 SMI;
.\" Copyright 2003 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2003 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Tous droits riservis.
.\" 
.TH servertool 1 "10 March 2001"
.SH NAME
servertool - The Java(TM) IDL Server Tool
.LP
.B servertool
provides an ease-of-use interface for application
programmers to register, unregister, startup and shutdown
a server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B servertool
.LP
The Java IDL Server Tool starts. Enter one of the options at
the 
.BR servertool  >
prompt.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Java(TM) IDL Server Tool, 
.BR servertool 
provides the
ease-of-use interface for the application programmers to
register, unregister, startup, and shutdown a server. In addition
to the above four commands, other commands are provided to
obtain various statistical information about the server. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B register  -server  <server class name>
.B \-applicationName <alternate server name>
.B \-classpath <classpath to server> 
.B \-args <args to server>
.B \-vmargs <flags to be passed 
.B to Java VM>
.RS
.LP
Register a new server with the Object Request Broker Daemon (ORBD).
If the server is not already registered, it is registered and
activated.
.RE
.TP
.B unregister [ -serverid <server id >
| \-applicationName <name> ]
.RS
.LP
Unregister a server from the ORBD.
.RE
.TP
.B getserverid [ -applicationName <name> ]
Return the server id from the ORBD that is associated
with a server.
.TP
.B list 
.br
List all information about all servers registered with the
Object Request Broker Daemon (ORBD). In response to this
command, the server id, server name, and the
corresponding server application name for each server in
the ORBD is retrieved and displayed to the user. 
.TP
.B listappnames
List the application names for all server currently registered with 
the ORBD.
.TP
.B listactive
List all information about all currently active servers on a
machine. The active servers have been launched by the
ORBD and are currently running. In response to this
command, the server id, server name, and the
corresponding server application name for each active
server is retrieved and displayed to the user. 
.TP
.B locate [ -serverid <server id> | -applicationName <name> ]
.B [-endpointType <endpointType> ]
.RS
.LP
Locate the endpoints (ports) of a specific type for all ORBs
created by a registered server. If a server is not already
running, it is activated. If an endpoint type is not
specified, then the plain/non-protected endpoint
associated with each ORB in a server is returned. 
.RE
.TP
.B locateperorb [ -serverid <server id> | -application Name <name> ]
.B [-orbid <ORB name> ]
.RS
.LP
Locate all the endpoints (ports) registered by a specific
ORB of registered server. If a server is not already running,
then it is activated. If an 
.BR orbid 
is not specified, the
default value of "" is assigned to the 
.BR orbid . 
If any ORBs
are created with an 
.BR orbid 
of empty string, all ports
registered by it are returned. 
.RE
.TP
.B orblist [ -serverid <server id> | 
.B \-applicationName <name> ]
.RS
.LP
List the integer mapping for the ORBIds. An ORBId is the
string name for the ORB created by the server. When a
server initializes an ORB with a particular ORBId, an
integer mapping for that particular ORBId is obtained.
This integer mapping is put into the object key to help in
locating the correct ORB in the server during requests on
the Object Request Broker Daemon (ORBD). If the server is
not already running, it is activated. 
.RE
.TP
.B shutdown [ \-serverid <server id> \(br 
.B \-applicationName <name> ]
.RS
.LP
Shutdown a registered, active server. During execution of
this command, the 
.BR shutdown() 
method defined in the
server application program is also invoked to shutdown
the server process appropriately. 
.RE
.TP
.B startup [ -serverid <server id> | 
.B -applicationName <name> ]
.RS
.LP
Startup or activate a registered server. If the server is not
running, this command launches the server. If the server
is already running, an error message is returned to the
user. 
.RE
.TP
.B help
.br
List all the commands available to the server through the
server tool. 
.TP
.B quit 
.br
Exit the server tool.
.RE
.TP
.B J " option"
Pass
.I option
to the Java virtual machine, where
.I option
is one of the options described on the man page for the
java application launcher, java(1). For example,
.I \-J-Xms48m
sets the startup memory to 48 megabytes. It is a common convention for
.B \-J
to pass options to the underlying virtual machine.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.LP
.SS SEE ALSO
.BR orbd
